P.1 Purpose
a. This directive defines the roles and responsibilities for managing and overseeing NASA’s nuclear
flight safety activities. It provides the requirements to implement NASA’s policy to protect the
public, NASA workforce, high-value equipment and property, and the environment from potential
harm as a result of NASA activities and operations, by factoring safety as an integral feature of
programs, projects, technologies, operations, and facilities.
b. This directive also describes NASA’s implementation of Federal requirements under National
Security Presidential Memorandum (NSPM)-20, “Presidential Memorandum on Launch of
Spacecraft Containing Space Nuclear Systems,” dated August 20, 2019, radiological contingency
planning (RCP) as a part of broader NASA emergency management activities (see NPD 8710.1 and
NPR 8715.2) and other factors, as well as agency-specific activities relating to ensuring safety and
mission success for NASA-sponsored payloads containing space nuclear systems (SNS) or other
radioactive material (note that these terms are defined in Appendix A).
c. This directive establishes a framework where other requirements, guidance, and processes (e.g.,
Department of Energy (DOE) nuclear safety and security requirements, U.S. Air and Space Force
range safety requirements, NASA payload safety processes) relevant to nuclear flight safety can be
implemented in to the overall Safety and Mission Assurance (SMA) process.
P.2 Applicability
a. This directive is applicable to NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers, including Component
Facilities and Technical and Service Support Centers. This directive applies to the Jet Propulsion
Laboratory (a Federally-Funded Research and Development Center), other contractors, recipients of
grants, cooperative agreements, or other agreements only to the extent specified or referenced in the
applicable contracts, grants, or agreements.
b. This directive is applicable to activities involving flight of SNS or other radioactive material for
which NASA is the sponsoring agency or that involve the use of NASA personnel and assets for
phases of a flight where the SNS or other radioactive material has the potential to affect Earth’s
biosphere. In some cases, aspects of the NASA nuclear flight safety program may fall under the
auspices of another Federal agency, such as in the case of a Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA)-issued license for the launch of NASA-provided radioactive material. If applicability of this
directive is not clear, NASA personnel will consult with the Nuclear Flight Safety Officer (NFSO)
and the Office of the General Counsel to confirm responsibilities for nuclear flight safety.